
### Points to Remember while creating the Lambda Expressions:

1. ==The type of the parameters can be declared explicitly, or it can be taken from the context, it means that compiler will identify the type automatically==

For example:
```java
Public void addition(int a,int b);
InterfaceName I = (a,b) -> a+b;
```

2. If there is a single parameter, the type and is parentheses are not mandatory to use.
Example:
```java
public void square(int a);
a ->a*a;
```

3. If the body has one statement, curly brackets are not required, and the value of the expression is returned.
4. If the body has more than one statement, curly brackets are required, and if the expression returns a value, it must return with a return statement.
5. ==In order to use a lambda expression, you first need a functional interface==.

> code example

```java
interface LambdaExpressionDemo2{  
    void greetPerson(String name);  
}  
  
public class LambdaExpressionSingleParameter {  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
        // compiler will identify the type automatically  
        LambdaExpressionDemo2 demo2 = (name) -> System.out.println("Hi, "+ name  + " welcome to java world");  
        demo2.greetPerson("Kumar");  
    }  
}
```

# Functional Interface

Functional Interfaces with Respect to Inheritance

1. If an interface extends Functional Interface and child interface does not contain any abstract method then child interface is also a Functional Interface.

2. In the Child Interface we can define exactly same as parent Interface abstract method then both the interfaces are Functional Interfaces. In this case not throws any compile time errors.

3. In the child interface we can't define any new abstract methods otherwise child interface won't be Functional o interface. Compiler will throws an exception " Invalid '@FunctionalInterface' annotation; "



## Predefined Functional Interfaces


- Java 8 has provided some ==Predefined (Built-in) Functional Interfaces== to make our programming easier. Moreover, Predefined Functional Interfaces include most commonly used methods which are available to a programmer by default.
- In our day to day programming many times we come across re-occurring functionalities to be developed. In that case, we can utilize the predefined functional interfaces instead of creating our own every time.

**Why are Predefined Functional Interfaces mandatory to learn?**

Apart from Lambda expressions, ==we will be using predefined functional interfaces==
==in Stream API most of the time==. If you are going to learn Stream, we would suggest you to go through once with predefined functional interfaces.




## Some Imp Predefined Functional Interfaces

Below are the very important Predefined Functional interfaces,
1. Predicate
2. Function
3. Consumer
4. Supplier
5. BiPredicate
6. BiFunction
7. BiConsumer


### Predicate:
- A Predicate is a Predefined Functional interface which ==takes a Single argument parameter and returns the Boolean value as a result==.
- In general words it is a Functional interface takes a one parameter and does the conditional check and returns the true/false.
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Predicate {
}
boolean test (T t);
```

**When to use a Predicate**
we can use predicates in these real-life use cases:
1. Find all Students who is eligible for Scholarships
2. Amazon orders within a specific time range
3. Employees older than a certain age

Predicate has other default and static methods to join or chain the predicate operations. It used to check more than one condition at a time.

1. **and**:
`default Predicate<T> and (Predicate<? super T> other)`
Returns a composed predicate that represents a short-circuiting logical AND of this predicate and another. When evaluating the composed predicate, if this predicate is false, then the other predicate is not evaluate. 

2. **or**:
`default Predicate<T> or (Predicate<? super T> other)`
Returns a composed predicate that represents a short-circuiting logical OR of this predicate and another. When evaluating the composed predicate,. if this predicate is true, then the other predicate is not evaluated

3. **negate**:
`default Predicate<T> negate()`
Returns a predicate that represents the logical negation of this predicate.

4. **isEqual**:
`static <T> Predicate<T> isEqual (Object targetRef)`
Returns a predicate that tests if two arguments are equal according to Objects.equals(Object, Object).



### Function:

- Function is a Predefined functional interface; ==it takes an argument (object of type T) and returns an object (object of type R).== The argument and output can be a different type or same type.
- Function has ==apply(T t) abstract method to pass the input.==
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Function<T, R> {
}
public R apply (T t);
```
T-Type of the input to the function. 
R-Type of the result of the function.


Predefined Functional Interfaces

Function Chaining: ==Function has two different default methods to join/chain multiple functions==.

1. **andThen:**

`default <V> Function<T, V> andThen (Function<? super R,? extends V> after)`

Type Parameters:

V - the type of output of the after function, and of the composed function. *This can be any Wrapper objects or custom objects.*

Ex:
`flandThen (f2).apply(i);`

- Returns a composed function that first applies f1 function to its input, and then applies the f2 function to the result.
In Simple words First f1 apply condition and then f2.


2. **Compose**:

`default <V> Function<V, R> compose (Function<? super V,? extends T> before)`
Type Parameters:

V - the type of input to the before function, and to the composed function

Ex:
`f1.compose (f2).apply(i);`
Returns a composed function that first applies the before function to its input, and then applies this function to the result.
In Simple words First f2 apply operations and then compose f1.

### Consumer:

- Consumer interface represents an operation that accepts a ==single input argument and returns no result.==
- It has the Single abstract method accept(Object).
- Consumers are useful when it not needed to return any value as they are expected to operate via side-effects.
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Consumer<T> {
	/**
	* Performs this operation on the given argument.
	* @param t the input argument
	*/
	void accept (T t);
}
```

Consumer contains the default method ==andThen () to join the multiple consumers==.
`default Consumer<T> andThen (Consumer<? super T> after)`
It returns a composed Consumer wherein the parameterized Consumer will be executed after the first one 4

### Supplier:

- Supplier is functional ==interface which does not take any argument and produces result of type T==. It has a functional method called T get() As Supplier is functional interface, so it can be used as assignment target for lambda expressions.
- T-> it can be any object like collections or custom or Wrapper classes
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Supplier<T> {
/**
*Gets a result.
* @return a result
*/
T get()
}
```

### BiPredicate<T, U>:

- BiPredicate is a Predefined functional interface and ==it takes a two input arguments and performs the conditional check then returns the Boolean-value as a output==.

```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface BiPredicate<T, U> {
}
	/**
	* Evaluates this predicate on the given arguments.
	* @return {@code true) if the input arguments match the predicate,
	* otherwise {@code false})
	*/
	boolean test (T t, U u);
}
```


Type Parameters:
T- the type of the first argument to the predicate 
U - the type of the second argument the predicate

**BiPredicate<T, U> Joining or Chaining:**
1. and():
This function applies the AND operation on the current object and the object received as argument, and returns the newly formed predicate. This method has a default implementation.
`default BiPredicate<T, V> and (Bi Predicate<? super T, ? super V> other)`
2. or():
This function applies the OR operation on the current object and the object received as argument, and returns the newly formed predicate. This method has a default implementation.
`default BiPredicate<T, Vor (BiPredicate<? super T, ? super V> other) 
3. negate():`
This function returns the inverse of the current predicate i.e reverses the test condition. This method has a default implementation.
default BiPredicate<T, V> negate();

