
## Why will you choose Spring Boot over Spring Framework?

- **Dependency resolution/Avoid version conflict**: Spring Boot provides dependency management, reducing the risk of version conflicts and making it easier to manage dependencies.
- **Avoid additional configuration**: Spring Boot offers auto-configuration, which automatically configures the Spring application based on the dependencies present in the classpath, reducing the need for manual configuration.
- **Embedded Tomcat, Jetty (no need to deploy WAR files)**: Spring Boot embeds application servers like Tomcat or Jetty, making it possible to run applications as standalone JAR files without the need for external deployment.
- **Provide production-ready features such as metrics, health checks**: Spring Boot includes various production-ready features out of the box, such as built-in metrics, health checks, and monitoring capabilities.

## What all Spring Boot starters have you used or what all modules have you worked on?

- spring-boot-starter-web
- spring-boot-starter-data-jpa
- spring-boot-starter-aop
- spring-boot-starter-web-services
- spring-boot-starter-security
- spring-boot-starter-for-apache
- spring-boot-starter-spring-cloud
- spring-boot-starter-thymeleaf

## How will you run your Spring Boot application?

You can run a Spring Boot application by executing the `main` method of your main application class, typically annotated with `@SpringBootApplication`.

```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApplication.class, args);
    }
}
```

## What is the purpose of the `@SpringBootApplication` annotation in a Spring Boot application?

It is equivalent to:

- `@EnableAutoConfiguration`
- `@ComponentScan`
- `@Configuration`

## What is Auto-configuration in Spring Boot?

Auto-configuration in ==Spring Boot automatically configures the Spring application based on the dependencies present in the classpath==. It eliminates the need for manual configuration by detecting the dependencies and configuring them accordingly.

## How can you disable a specific auto-configuration class in Spring Boot?

You can disable a specific auto-configuration class by excluding it in the `@EnableAutoConfiguration` annotation:

```java
@EnableAutoConfiguration(exclude = {SomeAutoConfiguration.class})
```

## How can you customize the default configuration in Spring Boot?

You can customize the default configuration in Spring Boot by ==providing your own configuration beans or properties, overriding== the default values or behavior.

## How does the `run()` method work internally in Spring Boot?

- It creates the ApplicationContext.
- It registers beans into the context.
- It kicks up the embedded Tomcat container to run your JAR/WAR.

## What is a Command-line Runner in Spring Boot?

A Command-line Runner in Spring Boot is an ==interface used to execute code after the Spring application context is loaded==. It is typically used for tasks that need to be executed once the application is up and running.


## Difference between @Component and @BEan

Here's a comparison table between `@Component` and `@Bean` annotations in Spring:

| Aspect          | @Component                                             | @Bean                                                   |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Purpose/Role    | ==class level== Spring component annotation           | Method level annotation for creating beans. |
| Typical Use Case | represents general purpose bean | Used to explicitly declare individual beans |
| Creating Instance | Automatically created and managed by spring | Explicitlly defined and invoking the method annotated with @Bean |
| Component Scanning | Detected and registerred during component scanning | Not scanned by default; needs to be explicitly declared or imported into the application context |
| Dependency Injection | Supports constructor, setter, and field injection | Not applicable directly; dependencies are injected through method parameters or manually using the `getBean()` method |
| Lifecycle Management | Managed by the Spring container's lifecycle | Dependent on the lifecycle of the object that declares the @Bean method |
| Dependencies/Configuration | Can have dependencies injected using @Autowired or constructor injection | Can declare dependencies within the method or through method parameters |

## Should we compare Optional will null

- Optional container helps to avoid NullPointerException
- Avoid returning null from a method whose return type is Optional. ==use Optional.empty();==
- Remove the null-check of an Optional and use Optional methods instead, like isPresent() or ifPresent().


## What's new with Spring boot 3.0

- Major changes are around
	- Java version - 17 or later
	- Gradle version - 7.3 or later
	- Spring framework version - 6
	- Jakarta EE version
- Minimum Java 17 is requiered as the minimum version
- records, instanceofchanges, mulitline strings
- Native support for declarative HTTP client interface using @HttpExchange annotations.
- GraalVM native image support - a new way to deploy and run Java applications
- GraalVM is high-performance JDK intended to speed up the execution of applications written in Java and other JVM languages.
- GrallVM offers two ways to run Java application: on the HotSpot JVM with GRaal just-in-time(JIT) compilet or as an ahead-of-time(AOT) compiled native executable. 

## What's Java EE, Java 2EE, J2EE or now Jakarta EE?

- These are different name for same thing: ==a set of enterprise specifications that extends Java SE==
- In the first version of Java, Java enterprise we simply part of core JDK.
- In java 2 1999, these extensions were broken out of the standard binaries AND J2EE or Java 2 platform Edition
- In java 5 in 2006, J2EE was renamed to Java EE or Platform Enterprise Edition. That name would stick all the way to September 2017, when something major happened. 
- In September 2017, Oracle decided to give away the rights for Java EE to the Eclipse Foundation.
- The eclipse Foundation legally has to rename Java EE. That's because Oracle has the rights over the "Java" brand. So to choose the new name, the community voted and picked: **Jakarta EE.**

## What is ElasticSearch?

- Elastic is a NoSQL database, opensource Search engine based on Apache Lucene as inverted Text Data structure and it is built with RESTful APIS.
- We use it for Storing, searching and Managing
	- Logs
	- Search Backend with terrific speed and flexibility.
- It mainly consist of 
	- **Indexes** - similar to Database in relational Terms
	- **Documents** - Rows - JSON objects
	- **Fields** - Columns


